in this tutorial we're going to make a
glowing object Bounce from point to
point and every time it jumps it plays a
note so what's happening under the hood
here is that we're making a vector
object follow a predetermined path
playing a predetermined song and it's
one of those Concepts where it's really
easy to visualize in your mind what you
want to achieve but as you probably
might know it can be a bit tricky to
make Curves in blender behave as you
intended so I made a free add-on to Sol
this problem and I'm going to show you
how you can make this glowing object
play any song you can think of using
only free and open Source software so
here we are in blender version 4.2 and
we're going to start out by deleting
everything and making a curve bzier so
this curve is going to be our projectile
or the energy trail that is traveling
through our music so I'm going to press
f2 and rename this to projectile and
then we're going to give this some
thickness by going to object data
properties and under geometry you can
increase the bevel
depth but we don't want the curve to
swing like this we want it to be
perfectly straight so let's press tab to
go to edit mode and then let's press V
to set the handle type to automatic so
now when you go back to object mode we
want this curve to be shaped like a
projectile like this so it's like a drop
of water or this energy trail that is
traveling this way so to make that shape
let's go shift a and let's make another
bzier curve and let's call this taper so
now let's select our projectile curve
and under geometry you can set the taper
object to be this new curve and now if
you increase the depth all the way up to
one you can select the the taper and in
edit mode you can select these control
points and you can see that we are
controlling the shape of this so I want
our projectile to be moving this way so
let's make this perfectly thin you can
hold on control and rotate it so it's
perfectly aligned with the grid and then
let's change the shape
here and I want this to be like a round
shape but you can see that we are
limited by the poly count of our curve
here so to increase the resolution of
our projectile you can increase the
resolution preview
but now you can see that even though we
have increased this to be a lot it's
still low poly and that is because we
also need to increase the resolution of
the taper so let's select our taper and
let's click and drag and increase this a
little bit more so now we have a higher
resolution projectile but if you view it
from the side like this you can see that
it's still low Poly on this angle so to
fix this we can increase the bevel
resolution and what's really powerful
about the workflow we're doing today is
that this is a completely
non-destructive workflow so at any point
if something is lagging in your viewport
or something like that you can always
change the resolution preview without
changing the behavior of our animation
okay so let's tweak this shape a little
bit more I think it's too thick so let's
just lower the bevel depth a little bit
and then I want it to be a little bit
rounder at the edge so to do this we can
select the projectile press tab to go to
edit mode right click subdivide and now
we have a new control point in the
center here so let's press G and X to
move it on the x-axis and now you can
see we can change the weight of this a
little bit and then let's take this
point to the tip and let's scale this
down so now we have a beautiful shape
that is a little bit of a head over here
and then it's a little bit thinner back
here which I think is really cool but
feel free to make whatever shape you
like Okay so let's give this projectile
something to bounce between I want to go
shift a and let's make a mesh plane and
let's scale this down and I want to view
this from above so let's press Z on this
Gizmo you can also use npad 7 and now we
want to just make a bunch of copies of
this so let's press shift d and move it
over there shift
another one and I want to do some
jumpings where it's first it's close and
then it's far away so let's just make a
bunch of copies let's make it go back
and forth a little
bit and now we want to make this bounce
in between these
points and to make this trajectory a
little bit natural I want the trajectory
of the longer distances to be a higher
bounce and I want the short distances to
be a lower bounce and you might be
thinking well that's just something you
could figure out with math I guess right
and uh yes you are right so I met an
add-on to do this and it's actually not
an add-on you even need to download if
you are in blunder version 4.2 you can
simply select all these objects and you
can go F4 preferences and in the get
extensions tab you can just search for
simple bounce curve and there you can
see there is my extension and if you
click install you have the add-on
installed that is so cool so the
extension platforms on blender is really
nice so so with the addon installed
select all the objects you want to make
a bounce curve in between and let's go
object and then you can click this new
button which is called create bounce
curve so now we have this curve that is
bouncing in between these objects to
make our energy Trail follow this curve
I think I want to scale it down a little
bit actually so let's select the taper
curve and the projectile curve and just
scale this down by pressing
s and then once you have scaled them
down make sure you go contr a apply
scale so to make our curve follow the
path let's select our projectile let's
go to modify properties add modifier
deform curve and then you set the curve
object to be our new simple bounce
curve now if you select your projectile
you can press G and you can just move
your cursor and you can see that it's
bouncing but it's a little bit something
is off here right and the problem is
that when we are moving it right now
we're moving it on all the axis actually
on the x-axis and the y- axis and the
z-axis but if you lock the Y and z-axis
now you can press G and move it and it
will only move on the x-axis and it is
looking a lot better but there's one
thing I don't really like about this I
don't think these trajectories look
super realistic I don't want it to be
like this I want it to be more like this
like an even Arc so what we want to do
is that we want to do changes to our
curve but we want to do all the changes
in batch so we don't want to press tab
to go to edit mode and then kind of
tweak this individually and then this
one and then this one because that is
extremely timec consuming we want to
make sure that every operation we're
doing to this curve is being done to the
entire curve so no matter how long your
bounce path is it will work so select
your path press tab to go to edit mode
and then press a to select all of the
points and then you want to hold down
shift and select one of the points so
it's kind of like highlighted like this
so it's like a white you see these white
things because if you don't do that this
next thing won't work so we're going to
go F3 and search for check your deselect
and now you can see that we have
selected only the bottom points and you
can bring up this little menu I can
offset it by one
and now we have all these top points
selected so since this curve is
alternating between bouncing and you
know flying in the air we can use this
technique to very easily select only the
top points of the curve so now that
these are selected we can increase the
scale but if you just press s and scale
it up it doesn't really work we have to
change the transform Pivot Point to
individual Origins and now you can press
s and you can scale this up and look at
that we have a much more natural
trajectory and if you want to change the
curve height you can reset the position
of the 3D cursor by pressing shift C and
then you can set the transform Pivot
Point to 3D cursor so now when you press
s and Z you can scale this up on the
z-axis so it's bouncing a little bit
higher or lower and then you can change
it back to individual Origins if you
like and tweak a little bit more okay so
I'm happy about the bounce trajectory
but I don't want the curve to start in
the ground here I want it to start
somewhere over here and bounce down and
then it starts bouncing so to do this
let's select our bounce path let's press
tab to go edit mode and you want to
select this point right here but you
cannot select this by pressing click and
select because these are multiple points
so you will mess it up so you can click
and drag to box select so now you have
the entire thing selected so now you can
press e to extrude this and then let's
press e to extrude it once more let's
click and drag both of these and then go
V and set the handle type to automatic
and then if you like you can rotate this
a little bit Yeah so now let's animate
our projectile let's press K to insert a
location key for and then let's zoom out
so we can see everything and then let's
go all the way to frame 250 and now you
can press G and you can move your cursor
all the way around you can see it's
bouncing around like that really cool
and then when we get to the end there we
want to overshoot it a little bit like
this and then let's go k for insert key
frame menu and then click location so
now we have an animation of a bouncing
curve look at
that so you probably notice that it
starts out slow and then it goes faster
and faster and that is because blender's
default key frame interpolation is beier
but you want it to be linear so if you
want to see what it looks like you can
just pull this up and press control Tab
and then you can zoom out there and now
you can see that this is our key frame
graph but we want this to be linear so
simply press T and let's set it to
linear interpolation so now it will go
at the same speed so let's press control
tab to go back to the timeline view and
let's bring this back down you know I'm
so happy about this effect it just feels
so organic when this is just bouncing in
between the objects like this so I
actually recommend that you experiment
with this because this is a lot more use
cases than just visualizing music one
thing I've been using it for is to do
stylized map animations for example
which becomes really easy with this
add-on but how do we make this bouncing
effect line up with the music now this
is where things get a little bit more
interesting because you could just
import any audio file and start lining
it up with the waveform Peaks so the
x-axis would be the note timing and the
y- axis would be the pitch of the note
and eventually you would probably get a
satisfying result however if you can
create your music digitally you can
export it as a midi file which is a
format that contains a ton of
information about the notes that were
played like their velocity timing and
Pitch which is exactly what we want okay
so to record some Medi music we can use
this fully open source online media
editor which is signal. versal doapp I'm
just going to click launch and here you
can simply just add a note and then you
can add another one and a third one and
you can basically just play any music
that you
want okay so this is the old Russian
folk song called kurin Niki you might
have heard it
[Music]
before so once you have the song you can
change the sound if you
like but I'm just going to go for a
default acoustic grand piano so to save
this as a Medi file let's go file save
and in addition to the media file we
also want to export this as an audio
file so let's go file export audio let's
just click export so here we have our m
file and our wave file and we can listen
to our wave file but we can't really do
much with the midi file in Blender at
least but we know it contains all the
data and we know what we want to do with
the data remember we just want the
x-axis to show the note timing and the
y- axis to show the pitch of the note
and then we'd like this to be imported
to blender as objects that we can select
you know like an SVG file that would be
perfect so what we really want is a tool
that can read the mid data and render it
like we specify on the X and y- AIS and
allow us to save that as an VG image
perfect let's just tell chat GPT to do
that and it works so this tool can run
in a browser it's up on my website
pure.com you can find it by just
clicking on this slider and dragging
until it says BR and then you click the
third o like that okay there it is yeah
so here's the simple midi to SVG
converter you can just click browse and
then let's select your midi file click
open and there you can see it's bum bum
bum it is our midi file as an SVG so
let's just click download as VG so in
blender I'm going to delete this
previous stuff I'm just going to keep
our projectile like that and then let's
go F4 import scalable vector graphics
SVG and then going to find our file
click import and it might look like
nothing happened but it's actually there
you just have to zoom in because it's
really really tiny so let's just click
and select all of these and let's press
s to scale it up and I want to scale it
up a lot
actually and now let's move it over here
so now we have these points that will
match our music and just a quick note
and this is actually a really quick note
sorry uh you can probably tell that this
looks different than in the music
visualizers I've been sharing on
Instagram and that's because these use
actual sheet music which is pretty cool
if you're into that but it takes a bit
longer to set up so we're keeping it
simple in this tutorial but if you want
to learn the longer process of how to do
this with accurate sheet music there's
going to be more information about that
at the end of this video okay so let's
make this bouncing curve in between
these objects so select all of them and
now we're going to use this create
bounce curve add-on but you will quickly
notice that if you try to use this it
just doesn't work look at that just
nothing happens and that is because this
add-on uses the origin of the object so
by default all SVG files are sharing the
same origin like right over there
because we mov it there we want this to
have individual Origins so with all
these notes selected you want to go
right click set origin to geometry and
now you can see you have these uh
correct Origins so now you can select
all of them and you can go object create
bounce curve and there is our beautiful
curve and now as the last time I want to
change these bounce trajectories to be a
little bit more organic so select all of
them let's just do the Checker D select
individual Origins let's scale this
up yeah that's good and then I also want
this to start a little bit like
this yeah okay so let's visualize this
music so let's take our projectile and
let's go to the modifier properties you
can see we already have the curve
modifier so let's just set that to be
the simple bounce curve oh and we
actually also still have the
animation okay so what we're going to do
now is that we're going to sync this up
so every time it bounces it plays the
correct note and to make life a lot
easier for ourself we're going to import
the audio file to blender so let's just
bring this up a little bit and let's go
right click horizontal split and let's
just click here and now you can set this
editor type to video sequencer and now
to import the audio simply hold your
mouse here and go shift a and let's go
sound and let's find our wave file that
we exported add sound strip and now if
you press
play you can hear the sound file and
that's good but we want to see it as
well so you can use this little handles
here to zoom in and we can zoom in here
as well and then you want to press n to
bring up this little menu here and then
you can um enable the display waveform
so now we can actually see our audio and
then you can increase the volume also
just make sure it doesn't go red because
then it's peeking okay that's good so
now when you press play you can see the
music okay so first of all you can see
that the projectile is jumping a little
bit before it hits so we want to start
it when it's here we don't want to start
right at frame one so we need to offset
the music just a little bit so we can
see that it's nine frames right so let's
select this sound clip and let's press G
and then X and then you can move it all
the way over here so now when you press
play the first note is synced up but if
you let this keep
playing it just not synced at all so had
this been a 2d effect we would have been
able to just give this a linear amount
of speed and it could just go like this
and all the notes would sync up but
since we are working in 3D here not only
do we have this distance in between the
notes we also have this distance which
varies from note to note so it's not
that easy to fully automate this but I'm
going to show you a really nice way
where you can just manually tweak it so
every note hits perfectly every time so
we're going to split our viewport in
half so let's right click on this line
and let's go vertical split and let's
set this editor type to graph editor and
let's press n to bring away this menu
and now here you can see we have our
curve so now if you view this from the
front by pressing minus y on this Gizmo
now you can see we have this really nice
view from the front there so what we are
going to do we're going to be moving
through this timeline and every time we
can see that there's a note hit you can
increase this to make it a little bit
easier to see every time we see that
there's a note hit we're going to make
sure that that is the correct bounce and
this might sound horrible but it's
actually really fast to do because we
are going to be using something that is
called automatic keying so simply enable
the automatic keying and you go to the
first one and you can hear this okay
that sounds correct oh by the way if you
go to playback you can enable scrubbing
so now you can hear the music when
you're scrubbing so here you can see we
have the first bounce and then over
there and then here we have the second
bounce so now you can simply press G and
you can move it there and look here we
just Auto automatically made a key frame
because we have the auto keying on so
now let's move to the next
note which is this one which starts here
you can see then you can just press G
and you can move it so it's kind of
wrinkling like this it looks a little
bit disgusting but then you know it's
actually bouncing and now you can see we
are creating these key frames here so
now let's go to the next one okay that's
good and now let's press G and let's
move this back and by the way if you
didn't have any key frames you might
experience that it's not moving forward
if you just playing it like this and
that's okay because what you can do you
can select your key frames pressing a to
select all the key frames and now you
can go shift e and you can go linear
extrapolation so now you can see that
blender is extrapolating the last key
frame which makes this a lot easier to
do so now let's zoom out and play this
from the beginning here you can
see oh it's actually almost perfectly
lined up with this one and let's move it
there next note there
yeah and then sometimes it's just
perfectly lined up but I like to just
add a key frame there
anyways and then if you like you can
skip forward many frames like this go to
this one and then you can go back and
kind of just make sure that they're
perfectly lined
up and then this is a long
one and there we go
oh I forgot to make it bounce one last
time at the end here so let's select our
path and let's press tab to go to edit
mode you want to box select the last
control Point press e to extrude and
then let's do e for another one now you
can box select these two and press V and
set the handle type to automatic so now
it will kind of Bounce one last
time and one important note is that you
can always add extra stuff to the end of
the animation and it will not mess it up
but if you go to the beginning of the
animation you can't really do any
changes because if you do a change here
then that change is offset and will mess
up your entire animation okay let's have
a look at what we got
[Music]
there okay so if I'm viewing this from
here right now you can see it pretty
quickly gets really small and difficult
to see what's happening over there so I
want to make a camera that is following
the motion like
this so let's go shift a and let's make
a camera you want to just look at this
from the angle where you want the camera
to be placed so I think maybe this is
good and then let's select the camera
let's go view align view align camera to
view which is control alt number at zero
so now you can scroll to zoom in and
then you can right click and you can
adjust the focal length to zoom the
camera out a little
bit and with the camera selected you can
press G and you can move it down for for
example or you can press R and rotate
and frame your shot so I'm going to
press R and then X and then X again so
we're tilting the camera down so now
when we press play this just starts
moving and we want the camera to just
follow this so select the camera and
press K to insert a key frame let's go
location and then let's move forward
until it's out of the camera and then
let's press G and then X because we're
moving on the xaxis and then let's move
to we can see it again there it is and
let's press K and insert a location key
frame so now the camera is following it
but it's following it too fast and this
is the same issue that we had earlier
that the default key frame interpolation
is beier so make sure your camera is
selected and then you press a to select
all the key frames and then press shift
e and select linear extrapolation and
now you can see not only do you have
this linear graph where the camera is
following it you can also add key frames
so if you select this last key frame
here and go shift d you can duplicate it
so this just makes it really easy to
tweak this okay so we need to move it up
a little bit okay nice so we have our
camera that is following this animation
let's add some materials to make this
look a little bit more interesting so
first of all I want to go to render
properties and I want to set the render
engine to cycles and then let's set our
viewport shading to rendered and then if
you like you can make some more room
here so you can just right click join
areas and click on one you want to
remove and now here we are in the render
View and this looks quite boring because
it's not really that much here yet so we
want to change the material of the
projectile so let's go to material
properties and let's give it a new
material by clicking new and let's call
this energy Trail I want to change the
surface from Principal bstf to emission
and now we want to add a ground plane so
let's press shift C to make sure that
our 3D cursor is at the center of our
seam let's press shift a and let's make
a plane and now you press s to scale
this up and want to zoom in on these
notes and want to press G and Z to move
it a little bit down on the z-axis so we
get this cool little Shadow effect on
our notes and now to view this from the
camera again you can click this camera
on or numpad zero so now you can see
that this energy Trail material is
lighting up our ground and we can
increase the strength to emphasize this
effect even
more so let's set this to 15 for example
okay so now let's give our ground plane
a little bit more of an interesting
Shader so let's select our ground plane
and let's make a new material and let's
call this ground plane and I want to set
the surface Shader to mix Shader and I
want to set the top Shader to diffuse
and then the lower Shader to glossy and
then you can lower the roughness of the
glossy so now you can see the reflection
of our energy Trail here and you can
make it a little bit
darker and then we can tweak this
grayness and now to get some more
contrast in our scene let's go to World
Properties and let's set the surface
strength to zero oh I think we need to
change this a little bit okay nice but I
think I want some color on this energy
Trail so select your projectile and in
the material properties let's click this
color and let's give this a yellow
material for example yeah I think that's
cool you know what if I disable overlay
now and I look through the animation
it's a little bit difficult to see that
we're going forward so to emphasize the
motion that we are actually traveling
through this world I want to add some
lights so let's go shift a and let's
make a light area light and you want to
press G and Z to move this up a little
bit you can see you get this beautiful
soft light I want to move this a little
bit on the Y AIS and if you want to move
it around more easily you can click this
move icon here so now you can click this
Arrow
instead yeah and I think I want to place
it
there yeah maybe a little bit lower so
I'm going to press G and move it on the
z-axis but one thing that is bothering
me a little bit is that we can see the
reflection of this light and I only want
to have this really soft diffuse
interaction with the lighting so to fix
this we can simply select our light and
under object properties you can go down
to visibility and you can disable the
aray visibility for the glossiness so
now this light is not reflecting any
light but it's still lighting up the
diffus part of the material which I just
think looks a lot better because it was
a little bit distracting with this
reflection here so now let's just
duplicate this light a bunch of times
let's go alt D to duplicate linked in
case you want to do changes to the light
later and let's press X to specify the
x-axis and I think this is a good
distance and then without doing anything
else you can press shift R to repeat
that
action I I think that's too much let's
get rid of this one and then this one
okay so now let's view this from the
camera
view yeah I think I like that by the way
if you want to isolate what the camera
is seeing you can press contrl B and
just click and drag like this and now we
are only rendering what's inside the
camera border I think maybe the ground
is a little bit too bright so let's go
to the material properties and let's
lower the diffuse strength here oh by
the way one thing I completely forgot
about you see these things here these
SVG files that we imported these are
actually curve objects if you select all
of them so in the corini collection you
can just select this one and hold on
shift and then select all the way down
to curve 18 so now all of these are
selected and they are the only thing
that are selected you can press tab to
go to edit mode a to select all the
control points and you can press V and
change the handle type to automatic
because since these are curves we can
still change the design of these so now
we have these round notes instead which
could look better if that's a that
you're into yeah I think I like that
better actually okay so let's export
this as the video file and what's really
interesting is that since we already
have this audio file in the blunder
project file we can export this video
with the audio so we don't really have
to use any more editing software we can
just do everything from blunder so let's
go to the output properties and under
output you can change the file format I
think the default is PNG you want to
change it to FFM video and if you keep
scrolling down you can see under
encoding you want to change the
container from mosa to ig4 four and then
you want to change the output quality
from medium quality to high quality and
under audio make sure the audio codec is
not set to no audio I recommend that you
set it to AAC and then these default
settings are fine so I'm just going to
render this to my desktop audio
visualizer version one accept and then
I'm just going to set the resolution to
50% so I don't have to wait forever and
then in the render properties I want to
set the max samples to I think 256 is
good for this so let's just do a test
render actually oh we forgot to add the
glow so to add glow really fast really
simple let's just simply go to
compositing and let's click use nodes
and let's just go shift a and let's add
a filter glare node and I just like to
set it to fog glow with a high quality
and I like to set the mix to minus. n6
for example the threshold to zero and
the size to 9 so now when we render this
yeah now we have this glow effect that
just makes this look a little bit
brighter if you ask me okay so for the
final render I like to have motion blur
enabled but you should know that if you
have the persistent data enabled that
just completely breaks the motion blur
for this effect so if you're rendering
this with motion blur make sure that the
persistent data is disabled so to render
the video Let's Go render render
animation okay so the render has
finished let's have a look at the final
result
[Music]
okay I changed my mind and did it in
100% resolution instead and I swwa the
audio track to a real piano recording so
you can download that audio file for
free Link in the video description now
if you wish this video was longer or you
wish we had more time to explore more
advanced AUD visualization techniques
like using actual sheet music or this 3D
twisting waveform concept I've been
secretly working on something for a
while now or not completely secret my
patrons already knew about this but I've
been exploring unique ways to make audio
reactive 3D animations and there are so
many powerful techniques I want to show
you so making an in-depth course where
we'll have all the time in the world to
go really deep into aut visualizers so
I'm not ready yet and I'm still working
on it but I'm very excited about this so
if you want to be notified when the
course drops check out the link in
description to be notified via email and
if you watch this entire video as a
thank you for the support the first 500
people to sign up for this mating list
will get this custom energy Trail Shader
that works with a tutorial that you just
watched so that's it I hope to see when
the course is ready thank you for the
support thanks for watching
[Music]